# Kyrie Irving Moving Again

Kyrie Irving was traded to the Dallas Mavericks on Monday making it his fifth team in the NBA which is becoming all too familiar.  I don't know how all this change is benefitting him, but he seems to be restless in one place, in another year or so he'll probably leave Dallas.  What strikes me as interesting is that he always leaves a good thing, while the Nets are not that close to championship contention, they have a relatively solid roster and could be in that championship conversation.  Cleveland had a championship roster and he decided that he'd had enough, the Celtics were pretty close to the current championship caliber Celtics roster, so why can't the guy sit still?

The reason he left the Cavaliers was because he didn't want to be in Lebron's shadow, alright fine, but he left for Boston and at that time, Jayson Tatum was not the same player as today, so he was the big dog.  The breakup in Boston was not that politicized, just seemed like failed contract negotiations that then saw him traded to the Nets.  With the Nets he would join with Kevin Durant, one could say that because of Durant's injury, he was the big dog in Brooklyn, but he still wanted out.

Dallas seems like the oddest fit of all his teams.  Luka Doncic is certainly one of the top players in the league with lots and lots of upside, but the offense is clearly centered around Luka, this is Luka's Mavs, it will never be Kyrie's Mavs.  So why, why on earth would he join the Mavs?  Joining the Mavs is not a terrible situtation, this is an organization that has had trouble attracting top tier players, everything in the past has been mostly through draft picks like Dirk Nowitski so I'm certain that the Mavs would try to do everything they could to keep him which is good for his contract extension.  But the only thing I could think of was that he couldn't take the heat from being in NYC, especially after supporting an anti-semitic film.  Naturally NYC is always in the spotlight, whether you want to or not, just by being there, or close by, you're in the spotlight.  Maybe that's what drove him out of NYC.  Boston is in a similar situation, especially for sports.

Ideally, the best team for Kyrie would be the one that centers their team construction and style around him, but that would certainly mean some rebuilding team like Houston or Detroit.  Losing that many games per year would probably frustrate him even more than the spotlight.  I think he's a lost cause in terms of the history books, I don't see him stabilizing anytime soon and he's already 30.  He really could have been one of those players with multiple championships, but instead he'll probably have this one from Cleveland so many years ago.

As to Dallas, the Mavericks have absolutely no depth, what depth they had, they traded, and from a roster perspective, Kyrie and Luka play the same position, point guard, both need the ball in their hands, like a lot.  What Luka really needs are more spot up shooters, by no means am I saying that Spencer Dinwiddie is in the same conversation with Irving, but he was also a scoring point guard that needed the ball in his hands, not a spot of shooter, so Dallas wasn't very good with Dinwiddie and Luka in at the same time, Jalen Brunson was also a scoring point guard and eventually got traded to New York.  Finney-Smith was a pretty solid player and a big loss to the Mavericks, sort of a poor man's Mikal Bridges, 3 and D type.  So now the starting lineup will be Luka Doncic, Kyrie Irving, Tim Hardaway Jr., Markieff Morris, and Dwight Powell.  From the bench Reggie Bullock, Christian Wood, Davis Bertans, JaVale McGee, and Max Kleber, that's really about it.  There are a lot of redundant positions like the three centers Christian Wood, David Bertans, and JaVale McGee, the wing and guard spots are a little bit more barren.

I don't think the Mavericks are any worse, definitely better, but still not going to be able to beat Golden State or the Denver Nuggets.
If the Mavericks can keep Irving, there might be some potential, but to me it seems Kyrie's more of a bargaining chip for later on.  Bring in a little bit more spotlight to Dallas for now, trade later.  One of the biggest losers from this trade is Lebron James and the LA Clippers, though the Clippers didn't have any assets to trade with Brooklyn, I'm sure the Lakers had probably enough to cover for Finney-Smith and Dinwiddie, but it came down to Kyrie probably not wanting to play with Lebron and being in the spotlight in LA, so Lebron really looks like an ass.
